Hello and welcome. I'm Philipp Maier, a course developer
with Google Cloud platform, and this is a brief tutorial on
using Qwiklabs in this course. I'm about to show you the interactive
hands-on labs platform called Qwiklabs, which is part of Google Cloud. Qwiklabs allows you to get practical,
hands-on experience with GCP, and provisions you with Google
account credentials so you can access the GCP console at no cost. The first step is to log into
Coursera in an incognito window. Depending on your browser,
it may also be called private browsing or in private browsing. Logging into Coursera from a private
window ensures that you don't accidentally use your own Google account while
accessing the the Google Cloud Console. We don't want you to get any unexpected
bills at the end of the month. Check out the links below this video for
different browser support articles. Once logged into Coursera
using an incognito window, return to your course and
go to the Lab Activity page. So if prompted,
you want to accept the Honor Code, and you might even have to enter your name. Then you want to click the Open Tool
button to open the lab in a new tab. So within the new tab,
you can now click Start Lab. And you want to wait until
the Lab Running is displayed. For each lab, you will have a timer in the
top right with the remaining access time. Your lab will automatically
end when the timer runs out. On the left,
you have the Connection Detail. Click Open Google Console. And then sign in with the username and password provided in
the connections detail pane. So I'm going to copy the username,
paste that in here. I'm also going to take the password. Paste it in here too. Now Qwiklabs creates a new account for
you each time you launch a lab. Therefore you need to click through
the initial account set up windows. So essentially I need to accept this. I don't need to add any
recovery phone number. I can just click Done. I'm going to agree to the terms and
services, and I don't need any emails. Now I can verify that I'm using
the Qwiklabs provided account and project within a GCP console. So up here, I see the Project ID. And over here, I can see the Username. And these are the same ones that I
was provided with in the connections detail pane. You can also see that
the timer is still running. Now some labs track your work within
the Qwiklab provided GCP project. If this is enabled, you'll see a score in
the top right corner of the quick lab's window as you can see right here. Your score increases as
objectives are met and you can click on the score to view
the individual steps to be scored Now that I've completed the lab,
I can see my score has been updated. And I'm ready to click End Lab. Once I click End Lab,
the Qwiklabs provided project and any resources within that
project will be deleted. I can close the Qwiklabs lab page and my grade will be updated with
my lab score in Coursera. That's it for this tutorial. Remember to launch Coursera
in an incognito window and use the Qwiklabs provided credentials
to sign in to the GCP console. Good luck with the labs and
enjoy the rest of this course.