So, that was content-based, but what about datasets that could create for the movie web pages that use collaborative filtering? Just with content-based, this could be structured or unstructured, and also be explicit feedback or implicit feedback. Of course, for collaborative filtering to work, it requires users to interact with items. Otherwise, we can have a cold-start or sparsity problem. Let's say if this hypothetical example that there's abundant user item interaction. So, now let's pause again while we think about what datasets we could use for collaborative filtering recommendations, and then we'll go through some of the ones we came up with. All right. Let's see some of the ideas we came up with. The most obvious thing to use for collaborative filtering is of course user ratings. Now, this website might not have a way for users to leave explicit ratings, and we'd have to resort to more implicit means a feedback, but for this hypothetical example, let's assume there are ratings. As we know with collaborative filtering, these ratings will be used to create user and item factors within a rating embedding space of latent features that we can then use to make recommendations. We can also use implicit feedback such as user views. We can assume that a user ended up on a movies web page for a reason, that some interests led them there. Perhaps, instead of just a flag if a user has visited movies web page, we can keep track of the number of times they visited the page. This goes with the assumption that if a user visits movies page more frequently, they have more interests for movie pages that they don't visit frequently or at all. There's also the user wishlist/ cart history that we could use. This is an interesting dataset. Think about the wishlist. It is implicit because it's not explicitly saying that a user likes the movie, but that they think they might like it enough to add to their list. Also, the cart history is another step further. The user has actually now selected the movie for purchase and they just need to check out. As a lot of us do though, putting something new at cart, doesn't mean we'll buy it, but it is just another interaction, another signal that this user might like this particular movie. Going one step further, we can use the user's purchase history as implicit feedback, because we still don't know whether they like or dislike the movie, but it isn't interaction. However, we were able to also use a users return history as a proxy for dislike. Because there's probably more likely that someone will return a movie that they don't like or potentially other reasons that are more rare like the movie has broken, wrong language version set, et cetera. There's also unstructured data that we can use for a collaborative filtering model. One type is user reviews. These will be free text that we can apply natural language processing too in order to gain some idea of sentiment. Unlike content-base professional reviews, these are written by users. Users that we can find similarities too in order to make recommendations from. We can also try using user answered questions as data for a collaborative filtering model. This can be a little bit tricky. A user answering a question doesn't mean that they liked the movie. In fact, their answer to a question could indicate they don't like the movie. So, you could just use a yes or no flag, or the number of questions answered for each user for that movie is implicit feedback, because answering is an interaction, similar to using user views. We could also run sentiment analysis the answers. And although most would probably be flagged as neutral, summation was positive and others negative, which might be enough extra signal to improve recommendations. There could also be user-submitted photos for some movies. This might apply more to people buying an item from somebody who pictures item all assembled et cetera. However, perhaps people show how the movie looks on their brand new TV or they take pictures of themselves in a movie viewing party with their friends and their home theatre. All these scenarios or data that may or may not add some signal to improve recommendations. We can use the fact that someone uploaded a photo at all or the number of photos they uploaded as a form of implicit feedback. We could also use an image model to crate train labels that might convey some former sentiment. The same goes for user-submitted videos, where we can use the fact that they interacted as implicit feedback and work-in-process that video with other machine learning algorithms and use that now structured interaction data.