In the quiz we had earlier, we had some idea that The Incredibles and Shrek were similar. But what does it mean for two movies to be similar? We can try to answer this question in a number of ways. One way is to consider the different genres or themes a movie has. If there's a lot of overlapping themes between the two movies, then perhaps we can say the movies are similar. In the same way, we can ask what it means for two users to be similar. We could try to use the same genre analysis or another reasonable approach would be to consider the movies they've liked in the past. If two users liked all the same movies, we can say that those two users are similar. To do machine learning, we want to compare movies and users. So, we need to make this notion of similarity more rigorous. This is often done by thinking of properties or features of items and users in the same embedding space where we can then compare how similar they are. An embedding is a map from our collection of items or users to some finite dimensional vector space, it provides a way of giving a finite vector valued representation of the items and users in our data set. Embeddings are commonly used to represent input features and machine learning problems. In fact, we've already seen how embeddings can arise and some of the examples from previous modules. Here's a visualization of the MNIST data set of handwritten images embedded into 3-dimensions. If you look closely, this embedding show us all the ones lie in the same general area and other tools like together as well and so on. Lets go back to our movie example and consider a two dimensional embedding for the elements in our data set. That is, supposed we described our movies using just two genres or dimensions. Say drama and fantasy. We put drama on the x-axis and fantasy on the y-axis. A movie like Momento scores high in the drama genre but has a relatively low value for fantasy, whereas Harry Potter measures high for fantasy but only medium for drama. A new movie like Star Wars might appear to be closer to Harry Potter and it's embedded space, but how close? To make this precise, consider the following embedding values for the movies here. A similarity measure is just a metric that defines exactly how similar are close to items are in the embedding space. One commonly used similarity measure is the dot product. To compute the dot product of two vectors, we compute the sum of the product wise components of each vector. Because 26 is greater than 19, Star Wars is more similar to Harry Potter than it is to Memento, which confirms our intuition. The cosine similarity is another popularly used similarity measure, it's similar to the dot product that scaled with a norm of the movie feature vectors. Note the similarity is still greatest between Harry Potter and Star Wars. Lets have a quick quiz to check our understanding of similarity measures. Compute the cosine similarity between Star Wars and Shrek and between Harry Potter and The Incredibles, which pair of movies is more similar? That's right. Star Wars and Shrek are more similar because the cosine similarity measure between them is greater. Check that these are the values you found when computing the cosine similarity between these pairs of movies.