That was great we were able
to use the tensor2tensor to train a sequence to
sequence model quite easily. But if you noticed,
we have gone through all of the steps of data processing,
machine learning model design, hyper parameter tuning,
evaluation, and etc. This process is very complex and
time intensive, is there an automated way to do this? The answer is yes, for example, if we wanted to do translation,
we have the input text, the output text, and
we want to train a model. We can do it with tensor2tensor,
we can write the problem, the data generation code ourselves or we can just use
AutoML Translation which is a completely GUI driven
technology to do it for us. AutoML Translation makes building
the translation model easier, we just need to follow three steps, prepare training and the test data, build model and evaluate results. For the model building step we can
either leverage the pre-built model or build custom model for
our specific domain. That is the key differentiation for
AutoML Translation. Why is the domain specific
translation important? Let see an example. Let see, we want to translate
that the driver is not working. Which is the correct translation? Is it the golf driver,
the driver of the taxi or device driver from a software? This depends on the context,
it depends on what came before. As we saw the translation may
vary a lot in different domains. So how could we solve this
with AutoML Translation? Firstly we can upload translated language pairs such as, [FOREIGN] a door, [FOREIGN] two table lamps and so forth. Then we use AutoML Translation to
train a language translation model. At the end we evaluate the translations,
just that simple. Let's see some example in action
from the education domain. Here we uploaded over 127,000 Blackboard Spanish English sentence pair. A custom model is trained and
evaluated by using the blue scores. Now for a new sentence in the same
domain we can predict the translation using both the custom model and the
Google Nueral Machine Translation model, which predicts the generic translation. Let's take a closer look at some
education related translation. We have a Spanish sentence, [FOREIGN]. Without the domain custom model, the Spanish sentence is translated to, frequently asked questions by
the moderator, which is pretty good. But with the custom model we got,
moderator FAQs, which is a much closer translation
that fits in the education domain.