We have look at the tensor2tensor and language translation. This is fine if we need to simply do one thing. What about having an automatic way of training for conversational system such as Chatbot? Training separate models using tensor2tensor or AutoML for each question answer pair is very cumbersome. It is much better if we could take advantage of preexisting natural language technologies that let us build conversations. Not one question to one answer but the entire conversations. Dialogflow is an end to end developer platform for building rich conversational experiences that people can communicate with naturally and efficiently. It picks up the best answer among all possible answers through intent and entity classifications. There are three components in Dialogflow, intents, entity and contexts. Intents are the action a user wants to execute. They represent a mapping between what the user says and what action should be taken by a chatbot. In communication, intents can be sort of as the root verbs in the dialogue such as the verb order in the sentence, "I will like to order to two coffees." Sometimes the intents are not explicit but instead are inferred from the entire composition of a phrase. For example, in two coffees please, the intent is the verb order even though it has not been explicitly said. We also want to map out intents to the goal of our application. If we are building a helpdesk application then our intents might include the obvious intent of opening a ticket, updating a ticket, and closing a ticket. Our application may also need to access and update a user's account information, branch out to a live technician or even pass along a quality assurance survey. Entities are the objects that we want to act upon. They help us get to the specifies of an interaction. In the dialogue, the entities are the nouns found through the conversation such as a person's name, dates and et cetera. In the case of ordering coffee, coffee is an entity but it can also be a grouping. There are many types of coffee such as Americanos, Cappuccinos and Lattes. When we are designing our entity groupings, we need to know how granular the entity should get. Sometimes, a coffee entity is sufficient but sometimes we need to know finer details. Entity help our chatbot decide what details it needs to know and how it should react. Entities are also a great way to add personalizations to a chatbot. We can use an entity and data stored in a database to remember details about a user such as their name or favorite drink. We can then echo those details back turning a rigid conversation into a casual dialogue. Of course, there is a list of building entities to help us start it. Lastly, contacts keeps the continuities in the conversation. It helps the chatbot keep track of where the user is at during the course of the conversation. This is helpful for differentiating phrases which may be weak or have different meanings depending on the user's preferences, geographic locations or the topic of the conversation. For the question of what about tomorrow? The chatbot needs to pick up the context of the previous question in order to give an appropriate answer. If the previous question was about weather, the answer should be about weather. But if the previous question was about the level of traffic, then the answer should be about traffic as well.