This is a demo of the AutoML Vision API interface. This is what we'd want to use when Vision API is not correct enough, so we want to get more specific on our labels. The first thing we would do is import our training images from Google Cloud Storage as well as labels to those images. When we click over on the Label tab, we can do several other things like define labels. Clicking into that, what we see are five labels for clouds as you see here, altocumulus, altostratus, cirrus, cumulonimbus and cumulus. These green numbers indicate how many examples we have in this labels. We can also review our image labels by actually viewing the images. So, we'll get a display of images when you mouse over them and click through, we get what that label is what that images. We could change the image label by using the radio buttons, we can also exclude or choose an image as an example of a particular label. Once we click out of this, we also have different options for labels. So, for instance, if we didn't have labels on these, we could use Google's human labeling service for labeling more images. This is the labeling service that Google uses internally to also label for other images that we use. So, this is unlike humans who have to in a process that they go through to evaluate. So, to be able to train, this is where we'd go to train a nude Auto ML vision model. We could choose between the base and advanced models, once you select base or advanced, you click Change, and that will change the model. We've trained two models. So, we're going to go over to the Evaluate tab. In evaluate, we see that we have a model already selected the advanced, and we can click through a few different measures, you see confidence threshold curves and as well as the confusion matrix. The confusion matrix has an each cell those which have been classified correctly versus those which have been mis-classified, confusion matrix has those labels or those images classified correctly on the diagonal. In this case, we see that for altocumulus, 16 out of 21 have been labeled correctly. We can also go to the top of this and compare this, model this advanced model to our base model which we've already trained here. When we do that, our confusion matrix gives us a really nifty view where it presents the percent improvement from the base model. So, in this case, altocumulus gains 23 percent, cumulus 11, cirrus 26, cumulonimbus six. We actually lose a bit of predictive accuracy for altrostratus however. We can also click into one of these cells to see where the errors happen. In this case, on the lower left of the confusion matrix, these are false negatives. So, these are things which have been labeled or are in fact altostratus. Going back to the top, we clicked over to actually predicting with this model. Once we've clicked into this, we can go ahead and upload a model by clicking Query online and choosing a local file to predict. This case, I'll choose a file that comes from a image that we haven't seen in our training. Click Predict, and it takes a second do the prediction, and once we have that, what we should get is the percent confidence we have that this image matches the label. So, in this case, we are 0.99 percent sure that this is a cirrus, less sure about cumulus and altocumulus. Also clicking onto the Vision API, we see the actual commands that you would use to do this in the cloud shell, and if we were using a request, just on the request file we'd see what that structure of that file looks like, so that takes the URL, also takes that. The features we want to use is custom label detection and also which model we want to use here, in this case, we want to use the advanced model. So that's it, that's how we predict with AutoML. I'm looking forward to having you play with it in the lab.