Now that you're familiar with the
challenges of moving large amounts of data to the cloud and a few of the options
available with the Google Cloud platform, let's work through common
data migration scenarios and which migration method is recommended. First, let's cover data that is
on-premise within your organization. Often, the easiest way to transfer
data is to simply drag and drop it into a Google Cloud Storage
bucket in your web browser from your local machine
using your local network. You can also use
the JSON API to manage and manipulate new and existing GCS buckets. Most commonly used is gsutil
inside your terminal. gsutil is a Python application
that lets you access Google Cloud Storage
from the command line. You can use gsutil to do
a wide range of bucket and object management tasks,
including creating and deleting buckets, uploading, downloading,
and deleting objects. Listing buckets and objects,
moving, copying, and renaming objects,
editing object and bucket ACLs. Here you would write a gsutil
command like this one. Specify cp for copy, asterisk for
all local text files, and then specify the Google Cloud Storage
bucket as your data sync. By default, the gsutil tools transfers
multiple files using a single thread. To enable a multithreaded copy use the -m flag when executing the cp command. Then gsutil will open multiple
simultaneous requests to copy the files in parallel, therefore speeding
up the transfer considerably. Here you can see the time savings
of parallelizing your requests for uploading four files. Now, after you get your data
transferred to Google Cloud, it will primarily reside first
in Google Cloud Storage. And there are four types
of Google Cloud Storage. Multi-regional, region,
nearline and coldline. For ML data, it's recommended
you create a storage bucket in a single region that is
geographically closest to you. The reason we recommend this is because
having your data in the same region as your computer resource
is like cloud data CROC or Google Compute engine instances that
use it will speed up performance. Additionally, at the time of this
videos' recording Cloud ML engine is only available in a subset of regions
which we will link to in a later reading.