So, we've seen how to combine the three main types of recommendation systems into a hybrid model, but some of these were somewhat stateless piece of the data. We don't know what is going on with someone who's interacting with an item that could have changed how they felt about it. The context that was experienced in matters, if the context was different and the perception of enjoyment could be different as well. This change perception affects sentiment, which can change the feedback provided by the user about the item. Therefore, an item is not just an item and the user is not just a user. There is more nuance to them, and that comes from context. Context is not simple, it is built up of many components that are users or membrane from the past, experiencing the present, and looking forward to in the future. Imagine watching a movie, what is your mood of the time? Are you super relaxed curled up on the couch with the bowl of ice cream? Are you completely tired from a long day at work, stressed from a long commute home, and worried about finishing your project for the deadline tomorrow? This problem makes a difference in how you perceive and enjoy the movie. It also depends on who you're experiencing the item with. Back to our movie example, what if you were watching a movie with your kids on the couch? What if instead it's on the couch with your partner? What if instead it's brand-new and economy seats on an airplane with a bunch of random strangers? The experience will be totally different depending on who you are with, and can affect how you would rate the item. Location, location, location. Where we experience things matters a lot when it comes to our perception. Watching a movie at home is a different experience from watching a movie at a movie theater, watching a movie on a pop-up big screen under the stars campaign in the desert is totally different and will affect our rating as well. Time is also a factor in how we judge our experiences. Imagine we can travel to the same place where we can go into winter or summer, this can be drastically different experiences. Let's say we stay at a bed and breakfast in the hot summer and the air conditioning is broken the whole time, so we give them a low rating. However, if we chose to go in the cold winter, we give it a high rating because they always provide a delicious hot breakfast and the house was kept nice and cozy with a great furnace. Even if the air conditioner had been broken in our winter example, that component of the bed and breakfast we didn't interact with, because it wasn't needed and therefore didn't influence our rating. Same place, different times, different ratings. Perhaps it is a special occasion, special occasions can heighten our sensitivity to experience because there are emotions, expectations et cetera. Going to a restaurant for a quick lunch with a friend is highly different from going to the same place for your wedding rehearsal dinner with your entire family the night before the big day. Even going to a restaurant on your birthday is a special event, hence why a lot of restaurants offer free desserts, come sing a birthday song, et cetera, because they want you to have a good experience especially because you're special occasion changes your perception and you may be more likely to rate more strongly one way or the other. Context-aware recommendation systems or CARS, add an extra dimension to our usual collaborative filtering problem. Traditional collaborative filtering recommendation systems use a rank two tensor, a user-item interaction matrix containing explicit or implicit ratings. Contextual collaborative filtering recommendation systems on the other hand, use a multidimensional tensor, but the user-item interaction matrix flow ratings is stratified across multiple dimensions of context. Here's an example of some user-item-context data for movies. There is a user column that lists the user IDs and item column that lists the movie IDs, a who column that list who the user watched the movie with, a where column that list where the user watched the movie, a when column that lists what the movie was watched on a weekday or weekend, and lastly a rating column at list explicit rating left for that user. As you can see, this data is much more complex than just a typical user-item-rating matrix we are used to. We might notice that this table is not complete. We want to predict what user two will rate movie three, if they see the movie with their partner at home on a weekday. With the traditional method, we would just want to predict what user two will rate the item altogether not considering context, but hopefully context here will allow us to better predict how they would rate the movie within that situation. Note, this particular rating could be different from our rating period for the same user and item but with a different context. For example, it could be a different rating for user two for movie three with their partner at home, but now on the weekend, plus all the other permutations. So, how does this work? We should first look at the user of interests interaction history. As you can see here, user two has also watched movies one and two, movie one was with friends at home on the weekend and they give a rating of three, movie two was with family at home on a weekday and they give a rating of four. None of the contexts are exactly the same as our movie of interest, but both are seen at home which matches our target location, movie two was seen on a weekday just like our unit of interest. We also should look at the item of interests user-interaction history. We can see that both user one and user three have rated this movie, user one was with your partner and an event on a weekday and gave it a rating of five, user three watched the movie also with their partner but now at home and now on the weekend and only give it a rating of one. Once again, none of the contexts perfectly match to our target ratings contexts, but individually all three are with their partners, user two also saw the movie at home, and user one also saw the movie on a weekday. So, how do we algorithmically use this data to predict ratings from other recommendations? Now, that we've learned about how context can affect user-item interactions, let's test our knowledge. We learned that context can be important when thinking about user-item interactions. Which is not an example of context for a user-item interaction? Watching a movie at the theater, watching a movie with family, relaxing on the couch on the weekend with a movie, the length of a movie, your mood while watching a movie, watching a movie late at night, or watching movie and a big watch party? The correct answer is D, the length of a movie is a property of the item itself, not the context that experienced in. That is not to say that context can't have a role related to the length of the movie though. Perhaps the user is relaxing on a weekend and they enjoy a very long movie, however, if they were to have watched that same movie after a stressful day at work and then you just start getting dinner ready for the family, they might get frustrated of its length because I just want to get to the ending already. The length itself isn't context, it's component of the item that is evaluated differently based on context. Watching a movie at the theater is a great example of location, change the context of your experience. Of course, the other factor is still come into play like, who is also watching in the theater, when the user wanted the theater, was a special screening, et cetera. Watching movie with family is mostly hidden on the who part of contexts, but of course, where it's being watched at, when, et cetera comes into play. Relaxing on the weekend with a movie taps mainly on the when aspect of context, but relaxing also hints that mood might be part of the context, not to mention where the user's relaxing et cetera. Your mood while watching a movie definitely changes the context is viewed in, and lead to differences in perception as well as all the other pieces of contexts going on during the movie. Watching a movie late at night, once again, mainly focuses on the context of time, but where it's being watched, with who, et cetera, can always affect the rating. Lastly, watching movie at a big watch party maybe a special occasion, hence, a very different contexts and as the movie was watched with more typical conditions. As you can see, there never really is just one facet of context going on at once, all of them are happening simultaneously, and all can affect how a user perceives an item.