In the previous section, we reviewed strategies that are appropriate when you have some labeled data already. But what if your data don't have labels or you don't have any data at all? Don't worry, you still have options. If you don't have any data at all, you can use a pre-trained model. Of course, you need to find a model trained on a task that's close enough to match yours. Google has machine learning APIs, where all we need to do is make an API call with your picture. The Vision API can classify pictures from one of thousands of categories, but can also do a lot more. It can do OCR, Optical Character Recognition, it can recognize unsafe content, and it can even be used to create a visual product similarity search engine. Google Cloud's Vision API is one of the pre-trained models you will experiment with later. Again, you don't need to bring your own image data for training, the model is pre-trained. The Vision API also improves over time as new concepts are introduced and accuracy is improved. Want to create a custom image model with no code whatsoever? With AutoML vision, you can create custom models without any code that highlights specific concepts of your images. You'll practice with both the Cloud Vision API and Cloud AutoML in a later module. The other thing you can do is get more data. There are companies that label data as a service and Google Cloud is partnering with Figure Eight to bring that service to GCP customers. For more information, check out the link that we provide. There you have it. Even though data scarcity is a very real challenge, we have plenty of tools to address it. If we have some data, we can take our data and make more of it using data augmentation, or we can decrease our need for data by using transfer learning and even if you wanna do transfer learning without writing any code, you can. If you don't have any labeled data, you can still use state of the art models for a variety of computer vision tasks, or you can enlist a partner to help you label your data.