Hello. I'm Lak. I lead the team that is putting together the advanced machine learning with TensorFlow on Google Cloud Platform. This is the first course of this specialization. In this course, we will recap what we learned in the previous specialization. That specialization is called machine learning with TensorFlow on Google Cloud Platform. This one has advanced in the name. One of the best ways to review something is to work with the concepts and technologies that you have learned. So this course is set up as a workshop. In this workshop, you will do end-to-end machine learning with TensorFlow on Google Cloud Platform. You will learn how to explore large datasets for features, create training and evaluation datasets, build models with the Estimator API in TensorFlow, train at scale and deploy those models into production with Google Cloud Platform machine learning tools. In this workshop, we walk through the process of building a complete machine learning pipeline. So, it covers ingest, exploration, training, evaluation, deployment, and prediction. So, the course consists of seven labs and it's primarily hands-on. The way it works is that we will quickly review the key concepts that you will need for the following lab and then we will drop you off into the lab. Do the lab and then come back. We will recap the lab and then move on to the next set of concepts and the next lab. So, along the way, you explore the data, visualize the dataset, pick features for your machine learning model. That's the first lab. Then, in the second lab, you create a sample dataset so that you can do local development of a TensorFlow model. In the third lab, you will develop a TensorFlow Estimator API model. At this point, we have the prototype in place. Once we have the prototype in place, we will change over to productionization. The first step of productionization is to create full-sized training and evaluation datasets. In order to do that, the pre-processing operations will be implemented in Cloud Dataflow so that the same pre-processing that you apply during training can be applied during prediction in streaming mode as well. The fifth lab is to train the model. The training of the model will be distributed and scaled out on Cloud ML Engine. In the sixth lab, the trained model will be deployed as a micro service and in the seventh lab, predictions invoked from a web application. So, let's get started.